🔹 Experience:
Microsoft Software Engineer II Redmond, WA April 2019 – Present • Analyzed performance data and optimized legacy backend code for SharePoint Classic Publishing sites, improving query caching and CPU-heavy operations such as HTML rewriting. • Designed and implemented quality-of-service dashboards and performance frameworks to dynamically detect performance issues across 400+ top companies. • Improved data processing scripts that analyze daily site performance data for 1000+ companies, performance incidents, and engineering system health. Amazon.com Software Development Engineer II Seattle, WA October 2016 – January 2019 • Designed and implemented ordering and accounting workﬂows to launch Prime Wardrobe US/UK/JP, a try-before-you-buy program for clothing, jewelry, and shoes. • Reduced the US Prime Wardrobe non-payment rate signiﬁcantly by implementing additional validations based on customer behavior patterns. • Optimized Prime Wardrobe’s Redshift cluster by intelligently distributing workloads, reducing peak CPU usage from 95% to 50% and peak disk usage from 90% to 60%. • Migrated Prime Wardrobe’s accounting backend to a next-generation plugin-based service, allowing for easy future integration with other retail programs. Software Development Engineer I June 2014 – October 2016 • Implemented critical detail page and globalized item publishing features to help launch the Rest of World project, which enabled customers from 200+ countries to purchase digital software and video games. • Designed and implemented an automated accounting solution for the Digital Software & Video Games business, reducing the work required in monthly accounting close from 10+ hours to 2 hours. • Created an internal Django website for vendor managers to manage pricing, blacklisting, and inventory for software and video games, reducing monthly operational time spent from 20+ hours to 10 hours. Crunchyroll Engineering Intern San Francisco, CA June 2013 – August 2013 • Developed a new version of Crunchyroll’s application for the Roku platform. • Worked with a designer to revamp the application’s user interface, improved HD video playback, and implemented a multilingual translations framework.

🔹 Skills:
Languages: C#, HTML/CSS, Java, JavaScript, LATEX, Python, SQL Software: Atlassian (Bitbucket, Jira, Conﬂuence), AWS (DynamoDB, EC2, Lambda, RDS, Redshift, S3, SQS), Microsoft (Azure DevOps, Visual Studio), DigitalOcean, Django, Heroku, IntelliJ IDEA, Selenium

🔹 Education:
Lehigh University M.S. Computer Science (GPA: 3.96/4.00) B.S. Computer Engineering (Minor in Economics) (GPA: 3.77/4.00) Bethlehem, PA August 2013 – May 2014 August 2009 – May 2013
