Muhammad Shaikh 📧 abdul.aleemonly@gmail.com | 📞 +1 (438) 883-5624 | 📍 Surrey, BC V3W7L2 | Security Clearance (Senior IT Support, Helpdesk Systems, IT projects, Reporting, Monitoring, SCCM Man., Remote Sup, Datacenter Man) Career Objective More than 10 years of experience delivering exceptional customer service and technical support in the telecommunications industry. Impeccable personal presentation, superior problem and conflict-resolution talents, and meticulous attention to detail. Brings creative and strategic planning abilities with solid communication and implementation skills. Translates highly complex situations and resolutions into easy-to-understand directions that work out problems efficiently and effectively. Professional Summary, Skills & Expertise Microsoft & Cloud Technologies  Microsoft Azure Intune, Azure Admin Center, Azure AD, Office O365 Management, Microsoft Teams, SharePoint, Visio.  Multifactor Authentication (MFA), Dynamic CRM, MDM management (Air Watch, Intune MDM), TELUS, Microsoft Exchange.  AD Management, Print Server, Company Portal App Management, Intune Autopilot. Networking & Security  Wireless Troubleshooting, Network Troubleshooting, Network Monitoring (PRTG), DHCP.  FortiClient for VPN, VMware, and Datacenter Management Cisco switches, Fortinet. Meraki, Cisco VPN client  Cylance PROTECT Admin Centre, Zscaler, Symantec Endpoint Protection Applications & Tools  Business app: EMS, Citrix, HP Printing, Virtual Box, Slack, Symantec Endpoint Protection, VMware, Adobe management, Bluebeam Management.  Ticketing/Remote Systems: Service Now, BMS Track-It, Screen Connect, Connect Wise, Fresh works, Manage Engine, Bomgard (Beyond trust), LogMeIn Rescue,  System Administration Tools: One password, Bit warden. PDQ Deploy/Inventory, SCCM, Company portal Operating Systems Windows Server, Windows 10/11.Print server, File server Project Experience  Windows Migration: Successful upgrades to Windows 10 and O365 across organizations.  MDM Deployment: Implemented mobile device management solutions at Deloitte and other organizations.  MFA Deployment: Designed and executed Multifactor Authentication across organizations.  Wireless Network Deployment: Led wireless network setups and software migration tests.  Data Center Operations: Managed multiple regional data centers and streamlined vendor management. Help Desk Expertise  Troubleshooting and Incident Management: Technical issue resolution, virus detection/removal, system optimization.  End-User Support: Training, guidance, and escalation management under high-pressure scenarios.  System Administration: Ticket management (Service Now, SCCM), asset updates, and IT documentation. Achievements  Designed and maintained a new helpdesk system, increasing user satisfaction by 90%.  Successfully deployed MDM and MFA for large enterprises.  Promoted twice in less than 4 years at PCIGROUP and Sybrid.  Recognized with PCIGROUP’s "Best Attendance Award" every quarter. Leadership & Soft Skills  Supervising teams of engineers and providing training on technical support.  Strong planning and testing skills while managing multiple issues simultaneously.  Multitasking, decision-making, and problem-solving in dynamic environments. Specialized Expertise  SCCM Software Deployment: Pushing, troubleshooting, and asset updates.  IT Infrastructure & Performance: Security, backup, recovery solutions, and system optimization. Page 1 of 5Muhammad Shaikh 📧 abdul.aleemonly@gmail.com | 📞 +1 (438) 883-5624 | 📍 Surrey, BC V3W7L2 | Security Clearance (Senior IT Support, Helpdesk Systems, IT projects, Reporting, Monitoring, SCCM Man., Remote Sup, Datacenter Man)  Applications: Avigilon, Yardi, Store Logix, Sitelink. EXPERIENCE GDI IT Service Desk Technician Contract June 2024– Dec 2024 GDI Integrated Facility Services is your one-call destination for complete facilities for construction and maintenance services across North America with around 35 offices and supporting 50,000 employees (office & Technical staff) with a IT team of around 100 IT professionals. They uses Manage engine as their ticketing system with work load of at least 20-25 tickets a day and Beyond trust as a remote support tool managing. We also use tools Screen Connect management, Zscaler, Citrix, Bit warden TELUS portal(Onboarding and off boarding), VMware, Cisco VPN client • User and resource for security administration and management (Active Directory, Azure, Intune Autopilot, MS exchange, Admin 365, Print server). • Provide outstanding customer service with satisfaction a pleasant and helpful demeanor. • Providing clear guidance to the users and achieve a straightforward resolution to their support request. • Responsible for the ownership, prioritization, and triage of tickets. • Update tickets, resolve support requests and escalate as required. • Maintain effective communication and support the users using (Manage engine, Beyond trust (for remote support), Bit warden, Teams, Office 365). • Coordinate with vendor with requirement. • Assigning and retrieving Laptops, phones, Tablets and printers as per project or users requirements. • Assigning and removing Licenses for Adobe, Blue beam, Microsoft power BI, Visio and Project • Mobile phone support and provisioning experience related to Mobile Device management. • Support users, providing guidance, and achieve a straightforward resolution to their support request. • Larco Investments IT Support Specialist /Operation Support Specialist Permanent October 2021 – June 2024 Our IT team maintains systems for a privately held real estate/property investment firm with $5.6 Billion in assets across Canada, and USA. • Daily supports over 800 users and 1000+ devices onsite/remote using across Canada. • We maintain PCs, Laptops, IP phones, Mobile phones, onboarding/off boarding Users, Printers, network devices, Avigilon Camera systems, Sitelink Store logics, Yardi, Share drives etc. • Migrated and Maintain iPhone and Android devices for all employees on MDM solutions. • Testing and assessing enterprise improvement projects on different real estate projects including. • Project implementation, working with Vendors, users, co-workers to execute on time and deliver results with in timeline. • Responsible for Implementing and migrating more than 15 Self storage sites across Canada using Microsoft Azure Auto pilot for compliance standards. • Managing building on site Data centers with VMware for multiple sites. • ICBC (Intersection Traffic Camera Unit) System Administrator Contract April 2021 – October 2021 Red flex team Supporting ICBC as client for managing traffic System in BC tickets are logged in Mantis but this is being migrated to JIRA at the moment. The environment consists of a mix of physical and virtual servers running on VMWare. Servers are primarily Windows Server 2016 & 2012 except for the DB server which is Oracle running on Solaris. There are 140 remote computers in the field running a mix of Windows XP, Windows 7 and Windows 10. Desktop Windows 10 PC’s, HP network printers. Network devices are all CISCO, man data center and tape record. Page 2 of 5Muhammad Shaikh 📧 abdul.aleemonly@gmail.com | 📞 +1 (438) 883-5624 | 📍 Surrey, BC V3W7L2 | Security Clearance (Senior IT Support, Helpdesk Systems, IT projects, Reporting, Monitoring, SCCM Man., Remote Sup, Datacenter Man) DNAGenotek IT Support Technician Contract January 2020 – October 2020 Worked DNAGenotek IT team members and supervisors to improve troubleshooting skills and situation analysis. Assisted 200+ user’s with implementing new software and network infrastructure to ease transition to new technology assets, projects and planned operations. Supported senior technicians with complex tasks and time-sensitive. • Ascertain that the network remains through and operational and resolve any discrepancies for tier-2 and tier-3 level of IT network related incident. • Provided technical assistance to customers on inbound telephone tech support calls. • Perform deterrent measures for network integrity, reliability and monitoring. • Provide Hardware and software support to all users including updates for Windows, Firmware updates and security upgrades. • Used remote access to perform troubleshooting when using LogMeIn Rescue. • Walked customers through step-by-step process for troubleshooting hardware/software issues. • Conducted computer technology training with all new staff. • Managing LAN and wireless connectivity physically at switches and through web interface with users and other network devices. • Managing File server, VMware, Active directory and exchange server (adding new Users, assigning folder access and Removing users). • Worked on BMC Track-It for managing tickets, Used Fortinet to manage user’s authentication, PQD inventory and Deploy, Azure AD/exchange, Fort Client for VPN Projects • Migration Planning and scheduling from windows 7 to Windows 10 more than 150 users. • Preparing servers to help successful email server configuration to migrate to cloud and working parallel with network team. • Team player for migration of user email from local exchange server to Azure AD and exchange server (issues like group conversation missing, Alias setup, Departmental group email settings, adding and removal of users) for more than 150 users. • Helping and guiding users to migrate from MS office 2016 to MS office 356 for all users. • Helping users to setup their Multi factor authentication on Microsoft authenticator and without it and mobile device management for all users. • Using VMware and Virtual box deployed the solution for some users for certain use of admin right for developers. Ottawa Hospital Support Analyst Contract March 2019 – December 2019 Working in Ottawa Hospital as helpdesk providing technical support to 800+ user’s environment. Communicating with users at all levels of technical proficiency. Troubleshoot, resolve and document user help requests for desktop, laptop, mobile, network and peripheral problems. • Maintain and support systems, workstations, mobile devices, printers and peripherals; respond to user service requests; and resolve trouble tickets. Ensure system security for desktop, mobile and cloud environments. • Closed 95% of trouble tickets on the first call without escalation. • Profile migration, Windows migration from windows 7 and 8.1 to windows 10 and system upgradation that includes complete windows update, drivers, user’s applications requirement and its settings up to the user’s satisfaction without disturbing operations. • Commended for quickly resolving complex issues including system crashes, network slowdowns, connectivity problems, security breaches, virus infections and more. SCCM • Under general guidance troubleshoot failed systems management deployments and client health issues. • Under supervision, provide integrated solutions utilizing a variety of software products with a focus on Microsoft Windows environment. • Consistently logged and monitored ticket status to ensure fast, quality resolution of every issue. Page 3 of 5Muhammad Shaikh 📧 abdul.aleemonly@gmail.com | 📞 +1 (438) 883-5624 | 📍 Surrey, BC V3W7L2 | Security Clearance (Senior IT Support, Helpdesk Systems, IT projects, Reporting, Monitoring, SCCM Man., Remote Sup, Datacenter Man) • Set up LAN/WLAN trouble shooting and VoIP networks at multiple locations. • Configuration and performance-tuning of crucial infrastructure to ensure seamless business operations. Deloitte October 2014 - September 2018 Senior IT Management Consultant Help Desk Operations: • Lead and manage a 2-tier support team of up to 5 members, ensuring efficient issue resolution and service delivery. • Serve as the primary owner for all data center operations, overseeing infrastructure performance, security, and reliability. • Manage the ITRP (IT Help Desk Solution) process, including reporting, task assignments, and the deployment of new services to meet organizational needs. • Oversee and troubleshoot both WAN and LAN links, ensuring seamless ISP management and continuous network operations. • Lead vendor management for desktop/laptop systems, IT accessories, network equipment, financial applications, Smart Net, and printers. • Maintain and monitor Cisco LAN and WLAN controllers (2500 Series) with 25 access points (APs), addressing infrastructure issues and technical queries. • Monitor and maintain Cisco Layer 3 C2960X switches integrated with core network infrastructure via 3750X series switches. • Manage and maintain Cisco wireless controllers (2505 series) and 25 CAP1702I wireless access points (APs), ensuring optimal wireless network performance. • Oversee the management of file servers, Active Directory (AD), and Exchange Servers, including user provisioning, folder access management, and user deactivation; prepare systems for annual Deloitte compliance audits. Implementing IT Policies across all regions in Pakistan and maintaining quality assurance. (Data Backup policy, Emails Policy, Password Policy, New /Left users Policy, USB, Portable drives Policy, Laptop Policy). • Managing Lan and WAN connectivity physically and coordinate with ISP accordingly (Switches status monitoring, Patch panels, other network devices). • Maintaining and updating all software and applications library in accordance with the organizational compliance standards. SCCM • Provide tier 3 support - assisting level 1 and 2 technicians (Help Desk and Deskside Support Techs) with daily tickets and SCCM issues. • With guidance, perform patch management, application packaging and distribution, and operating system deployment (OSD). Projects: • Testing, Implementing IT Helpdesk Solution (ITRP) as per SLA. (As a team Member). • Configuring, Planning Testing and Implementing Mobile device management and managing 800+ users. • Configuring, Planning Testing and Implementing Multi factor authentication and managing 800+ users. • Success Full Data Center Migration including Windows and data migration on servers to a new plate form with team. • Migration Planning, Testing, Scheduling from one domain to another domain with profile migration tool and updating active directly to manage. • Migration Planning and scheduling from windows 7 to Windows 8.1 for 800+ users in complex scenarios without affecting business. • Migration Planning and scheduling from windows 8 to Windows 10 for 800+ users in complex scenarios without affecting business. • Drafting policies, Business case and other compliance, Artifacts and IT security related documents. Pak Carpet Group of Industries (Pvt) Ltd. February 2011 ‐ October 2014 Senior IT Engineer • Ensure seamless network operations by overseeing the resolution of tier-2 and tier-3 IT network incidents, identifying and rectifying discrepancies to maintain system uptime. Page 4 of 5Muhammad Shaikh 📧 abdul.aleemonly@gmail.com | 📞 +1 (438) 883-5624 | 📍 Surrey, BC V3W7L2 | Security Clearance (Senior IT Support, Helpdesk Systems, IT projects, Reporting, Monitoring, SCCM Man., Remote Sup, Datacenter Man) • Lead the maintenance and optimization of wireless 802.11 standards and WAN wireless technologies (P2P and point-to-multipoint radio towers) for robust network performance. • Develop and implement strategies to enhance network integrity, reliability, and performance while conducting continuous research to identify improvement opportunities. • Drive advanced network configuration and management, including TCP/IP, UDP, and IP addressing, ensuring scalable and efficient network architectures. • Oversee the installation, configuration, and support of Windows Server 2003/2008, providing hardware/software support across servers, including Windows, firmware, and antivirus updates. • Lead research, evaluation, and testing of client-server software solutions interfacing with Windows Server applications, guiding cost- benefit analysis and budget considerations for optimal resource allocation. • Spearhead the research and development of front-end requirements for server upgrades, overseeing feasibility studies, analysis, and the design phase for system enhancements. • Enforce and manage internet usage policies to minimize cyber loafing and control unnecessary internet consumption, ensuring productivity and network security. • Supervise and maintain an inventory database of hardware/software assets, UPS systems, cooling infrastructure, and network printers, ensuring optimal system functionality and reliability. Projects: • Testing, Implementing, Managing, Screening and deployment of wireless 802.11 and LAN on workgroup • Complete enhancement in network architectures with effective monitoring of CCTV monitoring on phone. • Designing and projecting IT budget for next fiscal year. • Introduced procurement process and procedure of software and hardware (feasibility, analysis and design phase). • Implementing Internet policies to prevent against Cyber loafing and profligate usage of internet. • Managing and monitoring SAP BM one database and client access rites as per policy. EDUCATION AND CERTIFICATIONS • MS (Computer Network and Communication) Humdard University (March,2012) (With Canadian Equivalency) • BS (ELECTRONIC ENGINEERING) SIR SYED UNIVERSITY OF ENGINEERING & TECHNOLOGY (March 2007). International Certified Course • CCNA (640-802) CISCO ID: CSCO11588182 Cisco Certified Network Administrator 27-04-2009 • SCCM admin training Udemy (Continue ) • ITIL-V3F Preparation/service (transition/Strategy Deloitte-Skill Soft /Operation/Design/Incident management /Culture/Change). Page 5 of 5